Add backup information, port from MoinMoin wiki (#369)
apache/couchdb-documentation: src/maintenance/backups.rst

.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT
.. WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
.. License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under
.. the License.

.. _backups:

==================
Backing up CouchDB
==================

CouchDB has three different types of files it can create during runtime:

* Database files (including secondary indexes)
* Configuration files (``*.ini``)
* Log files (if configured to log to disk)

Below are strategies for ensuring consistent backups of all of these files.

Database Backups
================

The simplest and easiest approach for CouchDB backup is to use :ref:`CouchDB
replication <replication>` to another CouchDB installation.  You can choose
between :ref:`normal (one-shot) or continuous replications <Normal vs Continuous
Replications>` depending on your need.

However, you can also copy the actual ``.couch`` files from the CouchDB data
directory (by default, ``data/``) at any time, without problem. CouchDB's
append-only storage format for both databases and secondary indexes ensures that
this will work without issue.

> To ensure reliability of backups, it is recommended that you *backup secondary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure reliability of backups, it is recommended that you *back up secondary
```

very costly and time-consuming operation, and can impact your ability to
recover quickly in a disaster situation.

On supported operating systems/storage environments, you can also make use of
`storage snapshots <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snapshot_(computer_storage)>`_.
These have the advantage of being near-instantaneous when working with block
storage systems such as `ZFS <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ZFS>`_ or `LVM
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Logical_Volume_Manager_(Linux)>`_ or `Amazon EBS
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_Elastic_Block_Store>`_. When using
snapshots at the block-storage level, be sure to quiesce the file system with an
OS-level utility such as Linux's `fsfreeze
<https://linux.die.net/man/8/fsfreeze>`_ if necessary. If unsure, consult your
operating system's or cloud provider's documentation for more detail.

Configuration Backups
=====================

CouchDB's :ref:`configuration system <config/intro>` stores data in ``.ini`` files
under the configuration directory (by default, ``etc/``). If changes are made
to the configuration at runtime, the very last file in the configuration chain
will be updated with the changes.

> Simple backup the entire ``etc/`` directory to ensure a consistent configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simply back up the entire ``etc/`` directory to ensure a consistent configuration
```

after restoring from backup.

If no changes to the configuration are made at runtime through the HTTP API,
and all configuration files are managed by a configuration management system
(such as `Ansible <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ansible_(software)>`_ or
`Chef <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chef_(software)>`_), there is no need to

> backup the configuration directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
back up the configuration directory.
```

Log Backups
===========

> If :ref:`configured to log to a file <config/log>`, you may want to backup the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If :ref:`configured to log to a file <config/log>`, you may want to back up the
```
